In this video,
we're gonna build the user account page
mostly using concepts that we already know
and already used before.
And let's start by taking a look
at what I actually mean with the user account page
in our reference website so here on natours.dev.
So we already rendered this menu here
on our website,
but when we click then on this user
we get access to the user account page.
And so here, we can change some basic settings,
also upload a new photo,
but this one we are going to do
in the next section actually,
and the user can also update his password on this page.
Then, on the left side there are some menu items,
which we will not really implement
so we will only implement the menu,
but not really the pages that they point to,
and then if the user is an administrator
we also render this part down here.
Okay, so this is what we will be building in this lecture,
and in the next couple of lectures we will then
actually take care of really updating the settings.
So, basically making these buttons here work.
All right?
But for now, it's just rendering this page here
on this .me URL.
Okay?
So, let's start with the pug template.
All right, and so as always,
I already have this accountTemplate here.
So let's grab that, copy it,
and then create a new view down here,
which I'm calling account.
And now we want to extend the base
and we want to create a block called content as always.
And then in here is where we actually paste our content.
All right?
Now we need to indent all of this
to make it inside of the block.
Great, so, here first we have our navigation, right?
So settings, bookings, reviews, and billings
that we saw there on the left side of the page,
and then we also have the Admin navigation, right?
And they already see a lot of duplicate code here.
So basically this list item elements here,
they appear actually eight times.
So four times up here and four times down here
so let's very quickly just create a mixin for them
to make our code look a bit cleaner.
All right, so I'm gonna go ahead
and actually copy one of these.
And then create a new mixin called navItem.
Okay, so we did that before.
So this is very similar.
So what do we need to pass into this mixin
in order to basically customize each of these items?
Well, what's going to change is the link.
Also the text, so settings, bookings, et cetera.
So that's text.
Then also the icon is going to be changing,
and finally you see that this first one here
has the side-nav--active class, right?
And so we will also specify an active like here basically.
And then when we want to mark an item as active
we will simply pass in through here.
Okay?
So now we need to fix the indentation here.
And then pass in our data.
Next is the text.
So this, of course at this point,
is nothing new so I'm doing it pretty quickly here, right?
So icon and then the name of the icon that we pass in.
So just like we did it before,
and then finally this active here,
remember, will be either true or false.
And if it is true then we want to add this class.
So let's copy it.
And then here let's specify the class attribute.
And then just like we did,
let's do a turnery statement in here.
So saying if active, basically,
then here we want to have side-nav--active.
And if not then we want nothing.
So an empty class name, basically.
All right.
And so now we can replace this with our mixin.
So that's called navItem, and so remember,
we write + and then navItem.
So here the link is an empty link.
And actually for all of them for now.
Then
Settings,
then the name of the icon which is also settings,
but in lowercase.
And then finally this one is actually active,
and so we pass in true.
All right, let's duplicate it.
Have a briefcase and we have My Bookings.
Let's make that lowercase.
All right, duplicate it two more times.
So here we have star
and then here credit-card
for billing.
All right.
And now we have the admin navigation.
And this one will only be visible
if the current user is an administrator.
So let's actually define that using an if statement.
And so here we need to test if the user role
equals to admin, right?
And so that's, again,
one of these more complex if statements
and so we have to use JavaScript for that.
So I'm using here unbuffered code again.
And then if
and so we will have access to the user variable in here.
So just as we did in other templates.
So basically we're gonna pass it into here.
And then of course, the user has the role attribute,
and so we test if it's admin.
And if it is then we want to display all of this.
And so it now needs to be one level indented.
Okay?
And of course now we want to replace all of these here
with our mixin as well.
So four times.
This one is called map.
Manage tours.
This one is Manage users.
Manage reviews.
And then finally we have one with the briefcase.
And this one doesn't have the text here,
but it is Manage bookings.
All right.
So let's get rid of that and continue our work down here.
So this one here will be the form
for changing the user settings.
And so the personal data will be here in these values, okay?
So basically in an HTML input element,
the value is kind of a predefined text
that we can put inside an input element.
And so usually what we put there
is the current value of that input,
so of that field.
And so right now, that's of course the name of the user.
And so let's put that here.
User.name.
And then down here it's then of course
the email.
And here we also have the image of the user.
So image slash users slash the image name itself.
Okay.
Then down here there's nothing to do.
All right?
And actually that's it.
So that's really all the data
that's coming from the user object
that we have to put in.
Okay, so that is the template.
Let's now go ahead and add the route to the viewRouter.
So right here, and this one is gonna be called /me.
And so we're gonna have a controller called getAccount.
Now this one here, of course,
is actually going to be a protected route, right?
Because only if we are actually logged in
we will get access to this page.
And so we need to use our protect middleware here.
So that's an authController.protect.
Okay?
So just as we did with all or other protected routes.
Now one problem that I see with this
is that this protect middleware here
is very similar to the isLoggedIn.
And so we will actually do some duplicate operations there,
which is not ideal.
Because remember that this isLoggedIn
will run for all the requests, right?
So let's quickly take a look at these
so that I can make my point.
So in protect we get the current user down here.
So we have this findById here.
But we do the same
down here in loggedIn, okay?
And so by using isLoggedIn and protect at the same time,
we will do this query twice.
And so that is not ideal of course.
And so let's put this isLoggedIn here
only under routes which are not protected, okay?
Because on the protected route
this check if the user is logged in
will actually happen as well, right?
But not in this middleware,
but then in the protect middleware
because it basically checks for that as well, right?
So let's cut it from here and simply paste it
in other routes which are not protected.
Okay, make sense?
And so like this we do not have this problem
of basically doing the exact same query twice
in all the protected middlewares.
And that's a bit better for our performance.
Now this one thing that we do in the isLoggedIn
that we currently do not do in protect
is this here.
So we put a current user on the response.locals.
And so let's actually do the same
now in the currentUser.
And so let's do the same here in the protect middleware.
So you put the currentUser both on request.user
and on response.locals, all right?
So that we can then automatically use it
in all the templates after it.
So in this case, in our account template, all right?
So give it a save.
And now we need to add this getAccount controller
in order to, of course, fix this error
that we get currently.
So that's in viewsController,
.getAccount request and response.
And you will see in a second why we only need these two.
So to get the account page,
all we really need to do is to simply render that page.
We don't even need to query for the current user
because that has already been done
in the protect middleware, right?
And so really all we really need to do
is to do something like this.
So copy this code,
and then here account.
And let's give it a title of Your account.
All right, so that makes that error disappear.
And now as a final piece of the puzzle,
let's add the correct link, actually, in the header.
So here in our header right now the link
doesn't point to this account page, right?
So it points to nowhere.
And so it should now point to /me.
Okay, and so that should be the final piece
to actually make it work.
And so let's log in here now
with test one, two, three, four.
We are successfully logged in.
And now upon clicking here we get our page.
Fantastic.
Now there's one error here with the User photo.
So let's fix that.
But beside that, actually all of it is working just fine.
We also get this menu here because we are currently in admin
and so let's test that also in a second
to see if it disappears for other users.
And actually we also get this error down here
because we have a failed request for the image.
And so we already see that we're
probably doing something wrong there.
And so here in the image, of course,
it's not user.name, it is user.photo.
So give that a save, reload here.
And now indeed, there we go.
All right?
So now let's log out, see what happens then.
And then we get this kind of error.
And that's basically because we're trying to access
this protected route while not being logged in.
All right?
So let's try that again now.
So if we try to log in with /me,
then we get you are not logged in, okay?
And before we got that weird looking error
because we're actually right now in development.
But in production, of course,
we wouldn't see that weird error that we saw before.
Right?
But what we see now is that, of course,
our route really is protected.
So we cannot access it if we're not logged in.
Now just to finish,
let's actually log in with some other account
just to see if the administrator part also works.
So let's, again, use Laura here.
And you see that she is just a regular user.
All right.
And now we get her user account, without of course,
the admin menu.
Okay, perfect.
So that is building the account page.
And as I said before, in the next video,
we will then take care of actually
updating these account settings.